[on non-first visit]
Welcome back. As you already followed the demo once you can decide if you want to jump right to the hub or go through again.

[jump to hub/to demo]

Hi, I'm Robert, the creator of traVRsal. Great to have you here. In this demo world I want do two things: Show a view behind the scenes and give you a tour of a few of the capabilties you can also use yourself to build worlds. I strongly believe, being able to actually walk in VR is such a game-changer. No more motion sickness. A completely new level of immersion. 

It all starts with the grid you see here. The bigger the play-space the more tiles the grid will contain and the bigger the worlds will be. The game will automatically adapt to the available play-space.

To make it easier for me to extend this tour, let me now hand over to my Robot Overloard voice in a second. Remember to join my Discord to discuss with the real me about ideas for awesome things that could be done! Now, step onto the indicator to the left to begin.


[Switch to TTS]
[only grid shown, indicator moves up after a while]

[Cubes appear]

Objects like the cubes over there are placed onto the grid, either manually or through rules.

Each grid with all objects in it is called a zone. You can travel between zones by different means. The most immersive one is to simply walk there using a portal like the one in front of you. Step through!

[moving platform zone]

Another way to get to a different zone, and especially to widen the perceived play-area, is to use a moving platform. Hop on!

[platform]

Each zone can have multiple floors which all can have varying heights. Elevators are special versions of moving platforms that connect floors inside a zone. Go up and continue from there!

[move up]

[platform back down]

Now let's get into world building. The easiest way is to simply exchange the materials of the walls, either for the whole wall, per tile or randomly. Check out the walls around you.

[portal to next zone]

Here you see some objects that show basic placement and rotation options as well as data binding and timers in action.

[portal to next zone]

Walls don't have to be all single tiles. You can also use segments spanning the whole height and also segments spanning multiple tiles in width.

[portal to next zone]

A powerful concept is to automatically replace the blockout walls with custom ones through automated rules. This means, the zone will look different each time you visit it as the engine will randomly fulfill the rules.

[future]

In addition, you can see how a scenery is added surrounding the zone. This is a single prefabs of arbitrary complexity which doesn't scale with the play-space.

Now that we have tackled walls and the outside, let's focus on what can be done inside. A very interesting way to connect zones is to create small labyrinths. The arrows on the floor will guide you.

[portal to labyrinth]

Inside the labyrinth objects can be placed through rules. These can include constraints like targeting only corners, dead-ends or to set limits to the amount, minimum distance and more.

[enter trap room]
 
You can also take damage. This zone contains a trap which you should avoid and a pit you should not fall down into. Try both. Upon death, custom audio can be played.

[enter gun range]

But not only you can take damage. You can also deal it. Both melee and ranged combat is possible. Hit the dummy with your hands or take one of the guns to shoot.

When taking objects, tooltips can be shown. Also watch your hands. A timer just appeared showing the time elapsed.

When grabbing an object like a gun these objects can show specific information on the hand display like bullets left using simple data binding.

Continue to the next room to learn about different types of targets. Make sure to take a gun with you.

[enter zone with enemies in scenery] 

There can be static targets like the dummies ahead and also AI powered agents that react to you and optionally move by themselves. These agents have multiple states that change when they detect you, which causes them to perform different actions like playing a sound or shooting at you.

traVRsal constantly measures accuracy while shooting and will count how many targets you found and destroyed.

There can also be non-enemy targets that you see in the next zone like pick-ups and collectibles that contribute to your score.

[enter collectibles zone]

Each item you collect by touching it will give you a differnt amount of points. World builders can define what happens when touching an item. 

Items can also trigger state changes in other objects. Collecting a sphere will for example change the state of the trap for 5 seconds and make it vulnerable to melee attacks.

[enter logic zone]

Throughout the experience you have encountered all kinds of logic already. Objects that move or react to the player. In this zone you find some more examples. 

One useful piece is the trigger which is typically invisible but which you see highlighted in the right corner. When going there it will activate.

[Trigger activated]
On this wall you see a combination riddle. This will be different in each play-through. Only if you enter the right combination the window will open.

Buttons and levers are other means for triggering logic. The button will open the door but it will automatically close again after 5 seconds. If the lever is also pulled down, it will stay open f or 10 seconds instead. 

[on door open]
The door is now open. The picture on the wall shows how easy it is to create such logic with simple nodes.

[reveal logic graph image on wall]

[enter crouching zone]

Since you enabled crouching in the world settings this zone features a much lower floor which you must crawl through.

[enter gallery]
[on image ad from server, one from project, rest unsplash, one resue frame from gallery]

It is possible to show external content at runtime. Currently images from URLs, from unsplash.com, from inside the world and user-defined ones directly from the device are supported.

This concludes my tour for today. More content will appear over time. I hope this gave you many ideas what can be done with traVRsal. You can download this exact world from github and see how all the different parts were created. Believe me, it is very easy.

Now I am really looking forward to which world you will create. Join my Discord to discuss details and raise all questions you might have. 

On a personal note, I am working on this as a solo developer. If you want to support me by spreading the word, creating a YouTube video, a post on Reddit or anything else, this is highly appreciated. And please put in a review on SideQuest as well!

With that being said, have fun exploring all the content traVRsal has to offer! Bye bye.  